Add Cost Optimization Automation docs page (#36794)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/cloud_cost_management/recommendations/cost_optimization_automation.md

| Delete extra on-demand backups (DynamoDB) | The two most recent backups are preserved on every run. |
| Set CloudWatch logs retention policy | Reversible. The retention period can be adjusted or removed at any time. |
| Delete old EBS snapshots | Snapshots referenced by an AMI are skipped. |

## Prerequisites

- An AWS account configured with [Cloud Cost Recommendations][7] and actively generating recommendations.
- The **Cloud Cost Management - Cloud Cost Management Write** permission to create or edit an automation.
- A [Workflow Automation connection][3] to each AWS account you want an automation to act on. Datadog uses this connection to assume an IAM role with the write permissions needed for the recommended action. Datadog grants only the permissions required for the selected recommendation type.
- (Optional) A Slack or Microsoft Teams connection if you want approval messages routed to a channel.

## Set up an automation

Go to [{{< ui >}}Cloud Cost{{< /ui >}} > {{< ui >}}Optimize{{< /ui >}} > {{< ui >}}Automations{{< /ui >}}][4] and click {{< ui >}}Set Up New Automation{{< /ui >}}.

### Step 1: Choose a recommendation type

> Select the recommendation type the automation targets. Datadog displays the AWS accounts that contain applicable resources, the estimated monthly savings, and the number of resources that match.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select the recommendation type that the automation targets. Datadog displays the AWS accounts that contain applicable resources, the estimated monthly savings, and the number of resources that match.
```

### Step 6: Save the automation

At the bottom of the form, set the automation to {{< ui >}}Active{{< /ui >}} to start the schedule immediately, or leave it {{< ui >}}Paused{{< /ui >}} to enable it later. Then click {{< ui >}}Save Automation{{< /ui >}}.

## Manage automations

The {{< ui >}}Automations{{< /ui >}} page lists every automation in your organization, grouped by recommendation type. From this page you can:

- Pause or resume an automation
- Edit an automation's scope, schedule, or safeguards
- Rename an automation
- Delete an automation

## Execution history

Open an automation and select the {{< ui >}}Activity{{< /ui >}} tab to see past and upcoming executions. Each execution record includes:

- Execution time and status (success, failure, or pending approval)
- The resources acted on
- Estimated savings realized by the run
- A link to the underlying Workflow Automation execution

Use the filters at the top of the {{< ui >}}Activity{{< /ui >}} view to find executions by status, recommendation type, or date range.

## Version history

> Datadog records a new version of an automation each time it's created, edited, enabled, disabled, or deleted. Open an automation and select the {{< ui >}}History{{< /ui >}} tab to see who made each change and what changed. Use this view to audit changes or roll back to a previous version.

Reviewer 2: nit: We probably do have `deleted` recorded, but there's no way for users to see it, so, i'm not really sure if it's worth listing it here... 🤔   Frankly I don't know if workflow team does a soft delete or a hard delete, and if version history is deleted at that time

---
title: Cost Optimization Automation
description: Set up automations that continuously act on Cloud Cost Recommendations to clean up unused or wasteful cloud resources on a recurring schedule.
further_reading:
- link: "/cloud_cost_management/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Cloud Cost Management"
- link: "/cloud_cost_management/recommendations/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Cloud Cost Recommendations"
- link: "/service_management/workflows/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Workflow Automation"

---

## Overview

Cost Optimization Automation lets you continuously act on [Cloud Cost Recommendations][1] without manual cleanup. You define an **automation**, scope it to the accounts, regions, and resources you want, and Datadog executes the recommended action on a recurring schedule.

> Each automation targets a single recommendation type and pairs it with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each automation targets a single recommendation type and includes the following:
```

- A schedule (weekly, biweekly, every 30 days, or every 90 days)
- A scope (AWS account, region, tags, and a maximum number of resources per run)
- Safeguards specific to the recommendation type (for example, a pre-deletion snapshot)
- An optional human approval step routed through Slack or Microsoft Teams

Recommendations acted on by an automation move to {{< ui >}}Completed{{< /ui >}} automatically and contribute to realized savings on the [Cloud Cost Recommendations][1] page.

Cost Optimization Automation is different from the 1-click Workflow Automation actions described in [Recommendation action-taking][6]. 1-click actions execute a single change on demand from the recommendation side panel. Automations execute on a recurring schedule and act on every matching resource in scope.

## Supported recommendation types

> | Cloud provider | Recommendation type |

Reviewer: The Supported recommendation types table has only one cloud provider value across all rows. You could drop the "Cloud provider" column and replace it with an intro sentence like "Cost Optimization Automation supports the following AWS recommendation types:" You can restore a  multi-column structure when Azure/GCP are added. Not blocking.

Author: @datadog fix this

Author: hi @urseberry i made all edits you recommended plus some from my team as well if you can give the PR a new review thank you!

|----------------|---------------------|
| AWS | Terminate Unattached EBS Volume |
| AWS | Transition S3 Standard objects to Intelligent Tiering |
| AWS | Terminate Unused RDS Instance |
| AWS | Delete Extra On-Demand Backups (DynamoDB) |
| AWS | Set CloudWatch Logs Retention Policy |

> | AWS | Delete Old EBS Snapshots |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| AWS | Terminate unattached EBS volume |
| AWS | Transition S3 Standard objects to Amazon S3 Intelligent-Tiering |
| AWS | Terminate unused RDS instance |
| AWS | Delete extra on-demand backups (DynamoDB) |
| AWS | Set CloudWatch logs retention policy |
| AWS | Delete old EBS snapshots |
```

Additional recommendation types and support for Azure and GCP are planned.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
We like to avoid making promises about the future in the public docs.

## Prerequisites

- An AWS account configured with [Cloud Cost Recommendations][7] and actively generating recommendations.
- The **Cloud Cost Management - Cloud Cost Management Write** permission to create or edit an automation.
- A [Workflow Automation connection][3] to each AWS account you want an automation to act on. Datadog uses this connection to assume an IAM role with the write permissions needed for the recommended action. Datadog grants only the permissions required for the selected recommendation type.
- (Optional) A Slack or Microsoft Teams connection if you want approval messages routed to a channel.

## Set up an automation

> To get started, go to [{{< ui >}}Cloud Cost{{< /ui >}} > {{< ui >}}Optimize{{< /ui >}} > {{< ui >}}Automations{{< /ui >}}][4] and click {{< ui >}}Set Up New Automation{{< /ui >}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Go to [{{< ui >}}Cloud Cost{{< /ui >}} > {{< ui >}}Optimize{{< /ui >}} > {{< ui >}}Automations{{< /ui >}}][4] and click {{< ui >}}Set Up New Automation{{< /ui >}}.
```

Author: @datadog fix this

### Step 1: Choose a recommendation type

Select the recommendation type the automation targets. Datadog displays the AWS accounts that contain applicable resources, the estimated monthly savings, and the number of resources that match.

### Step 2: Connect an AWS account

Select the AWS account the automation executes against. To act across multiple accounts with one automation, select a [connection group][5].

If the selected account does not have a connection with the required write permissions, follow the in-product wizard to create one.

### Step 3: Define the scope

Narrow what the automation acts on:

- **Filters** — Restrict the automation to resources matching tags, regions, or other recommendation attributes. For example, scope an automation to `environment:sandbox` to limit it to non-production resources.

> - **Max resources per run** — Cap how many resources the automation acts on during a single execution. The automation prioritizes resources by highest potential savings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Filters**: Restrict the automation to resources matching tags, regions, or other recommendation attributes. For example, scope an automation to `environment:sandbox` to limit it to non-production resources.
- **Max resources per run**: Cap how many resources the automation acts on during a single execution. The automation prioritizes resources by highest potential savings.
```

Author: @datadog fix this

- Execution time and status (success, failure, or pending approval)
- The resources acted on
- Estimated savings realized by the run
- A link to the underlying Workflow Automation execution

Use the filters at the top of the {{< ui >}}Activity{{< /ui >}} view to find executions by status, recommendation type, or date range.

## Change history

Datadog records every create, edit, enable, disable, and delete event for an automation. Open an automation and select the {{< ui >}}History{{< /ui >}} tab to see who made each change and what changed. Use this view to audit changes or roll back to a previous configuration.

## Recommendation status

When an automation successfully acts on a resource, the corresponding recommendation moves to {{< ui >}}Completed{{< /ui >}} and is labeled as completed by automation. Its savings count toward the realized savings totals on the [Cloud Cost Recommendations][1] page.

If you set a recommendation to {{< ui >}}Dismissed{{< /ui >}}, automations skip it on future runs until the dismissal expires.

## Further reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: /cloud_cost_management/recommendations/

> [2]: /cloud_cost_management/recommendations/#setup

Reviewer: This link is never referenced in the body.
